This is just going to be a quick demo
on how to use R Markdown in RStudio.
You can see I've got RStudio open here and
so I'm just going to start by opening up
a new file and
writing a little bit of R Markdown.
Okay so you can go up to the menu here and
there are a couple of options here,
but we're going to choose
an R Markdown file.
And the first thing you'll
see is this menu here.
They'll ask you, kind of, what your
default output format is going to be.
So it will, start at, it will have
the HTML option preselected and
that's usually where you're, what you're
going to what do you going to go with.
If you choose PDF or Microsoft Word,
you're going to have to
install other outside tools in
order to process those formats.
So I'm just going to create a title here.
I'll call it, My First Markdown Document.
You don't have to put the author but
okay I will.
And then you can just hit OK.
So now you've got a markdown document here
in RStudio and let me just close this
window here to, and you can see that
it pre-populates the document with
a little bit of text so the first
thing we'll do which is simple enough,
is I'll just hit the knit,
knit HTML button to see what happens.
You can see that it creates this,
HTML document in its own viewer here.
I move it over here.
You can see that it,
the text is rendered in HTML.
There's code here in the gray boxes.
So here your summarizing the cars
data set which comes with R.
It gives you the output for that code and
since the, there was a plot made,
you can put the, the plot will
just appear here at the bottom.
So you get this nice HTML document
that's generated from your,
your code that's written in this,
in this markdown document here.
Now this is obviously not going to be,
the ki,
the, the, the text that we want to present
so the first thing you'll probably need to
do is to kind of delete what's
automatically populated here from de-,
by default.
So you can keep the stuff
up here in the top,
in the preamble but
we'll delete everything else after that.
[SOUND] Okay, so now that we've gotten
all this boilerplate text out of
the way we can start
creating our document.
But before we do that,
we probably want to save it first just so
we can,
that we don't accidentally lose anything.
So let's click the Save button and
I'll just save it as you
know,Markdowm Demo rnd.
[SOUND] Okay.
So the document's saved and
I can start writing my text.
So I'll be able to say you know,
this is my first markdown document.
And so the first thing you often want to
do in an analysis probably load and
summarize data do a little
exploratory analysis.
So, let's load data.
And you want to open a code
block with the back ticks.
It's going to be an r code block.
And I'm just going to load the air
quality data set that, that comes with r.
So, you can load the data sets package.
And then load the air quality data set.
And just, I'm going to
summarize it just very simply.
Then we close the code block like that.
So that's our first, r code block,
and and let's see what this
looks like when we knit it.
So I can click the Knit button here.
And you'll see, first of all,
that it saves the document and
then it, it runs [INAUDIBLE].
You can see I've got my title,
I've got my text here.
Got my codeblock over here, and
then this is the summary of the code,
of the, of the dataset.
You can see that for
each column of the data,
of the dataframe,
it produces a little five number summary.
Okay?
So, so that's great, and we can close
this here, and, continue working.
So maybe let's do a little
bit of exploratory analysis.
Maybe want to visualize some of
the data so we can make a pairs plot or
what's sometimes called a scatter,
a scatter plot matrix.
So, now here's a pairs plot of the data.
again, we open the code block
with the three back takes.
I can very simply just do pairs it, on
the air quality, and then we can run that.
So notice I did have to do
anything special to create a plot.
I just, just call the plotting code and
then I can knit the document.
You can see now I've got the pairs
plot down here at the bottom and it
shows the kind of paralyzed scatter plots
of all the variables in the data set.
And then lastly we might want to fit
some sort of progression model just to
kind of see if we can predict for
example ozone from let's say solar
radiation wind and temperature.
So let's put that in document two.
So here's, whoops excuse me.
[SOUND] of ozone.
[SOUND] So,
we can open the codeblock one more time.
And I'll call this,
I'll say A Linear Model of
Ozone on Solar Radiation wind,
the temperature.
The data comes from this
air quality data frame.
And then we can summarize the fit
to see what the regression
coefficients look like.
So, I can [INAUDIBLE] the doc,
the document one more time.
see, I've got the summary of the data
up here, I've got the paralyzed
scatter plots down here, and then finally
I've got my code for the linear model.
I can summarize it down, and
it summarizes the, the linear
model fit down here at the bottom.
You can see that these,
all these predictors are all highly
associated with the outcome ozone.
So the model is has some
predictive value there.
So I should mention, in, in the lecture
on the markdown, there are other
things you can do for example, you can
create an unordered list by just, using
either asterisk or any sort of or any to
indicate kind of the bullets of the list.
So, you know, here's item one.
[SOUND] Item two.
You can create an ordered list.
[SOUND] Just by using numbers excuse me.
[SOUND] And so our markdown is
really useful for very quickly and
very simply creating documents, and
with the addition of the r code,
you can nest your written text
with code and output that kind of
that runs your date analysis so you can
have everything in a single document here.
So all this is really easy to do in
R Studio so I encourage you to open up
RStudio, set, create your first R
markdown doc, document, a, a, and
put a little text, put a little code
in and take a look at how it works.